# CaliRoad

CaliRoad is a non-profit application that seeks to generate a database of calisthenics training in order to be able to carry out further studies to determine which plans have the best performance. To generate the information, the application allows registered users to use the tool to enter their routines, either weekly or more in monthly detail, register their personal bests and compare the results obtained.

## Distinctiveness and Complexity

I believe my project meets the distinctiveness and complexity requirements for the following reasons:

1. Comply with responsible design using Bootstrap
2. Includes jquery, specifically it is used in conjunction with Bootstrap to generate the accordion with the exercises.
3. One of the difficult parts was defining how the information would be stored, which was determined to be through models, specifically to resolve the issue of the muscles involved in each exercise and the days of the week.
4. Includes authentication and user permissions, where only the admin can directly modify any model, currently from the Django admin page.
5. Use of APIs through fetch that speed up the loading of information to the web page and manipulation of the DOM to avoid reloading the page. (It is missing to add history state)

## Contents

### APP: Routine

The Routine app contains the following files:

### Models:

#### Essential:
The information of these models must be created before the launch of the application. Only admins should be able to modify these fields:
1. User: django abstract user
2. Day_week: days of the week
3. Muscle: muscles, ex. dorsal, pectoral, biceps, ...
4. Exercise: calisthenic exercises

#### Operation:
The information in these models is generated by the user of the application.
1. Box_exercise: container model of the exercise so that each user determines if he wants to include said exercise, the number of series and repetitions
2. Plan: contains all the box_exercises of each user in unique plan

### Views:

#### Render:
It has the index, login, logout and register views.

#### API:
menu_exercise: load all existing exercises

